Well, here’s the question
we want to ask this morning:
Is it actually possible
to speed up the day of Jehovah?
Well, if we look at our text this morning
at 2 Peter 3:11,
we’ve had that read for us,
so we know
that expression at the end
that we should “consider
what sort of people you ought to be
in holy acts of conduct
and deeds of godly devotion.”
But then it goes on to say:
“As you await and keep close in mind
the presence of the day of Jehovah.”
Well, now, if you look at the footnote
on this expression in verse 12,
you’ll notice that the expression
“keep close in mind” literally means
to “speed up” the day of Jehovah.
Well, now, how can we do that?
Well, it’s true we cannot bring
the day forward of Jehovah
even one day,
nor can we move it
back even one day.
That is not within our power.
That day is set.
But how can we, then,
“speed up”
the day of Jehovah
as it says there in verse 12?
Well, we keep that day
close in our mind.
We never let it be out of our sight.
As the footnote also says,
we “eagerly desire” it.
Well, now,
if we’re persons like that,
Peter says
that we’re going to be busy
in “deeds of godly devotion.”
Well, now,
just as a quick reminder:
What is godly devotion?
Well, just looking
at our New World Translation glossary,
here’s the definition:
It’s “reverence, worship,
“and service to Jehovah God,
with loyalty
to his universal sovereignty.”
Well, what do we get
from that definition?
Did you notice
—reverence, worship, service?
You see, godly devotion
is not passive; it’s active.
It’s reflected
in action and in activity.
Well, that’s why the apostle Peter
used the expression in verse 11,
“deeds of godly devotion.”
Well, what are some of the ways
that we demonstrate this quality?
Well, some of them are just very small.
For example, what about hospitality?
At 1 Peter 4:9,
when the apostle Peter
wrote his first letter, he said:
“Be hospitable
to one another without grumbling.”
Well, there are
so many opportunities
for us to imitate Jehovah
and be hospitable
—to share with others
according to their needs.
And this really is an expression
not only for another person
but it’s an expression
of our love for Jehovah
—our desire to want
to imitate him.
Well, we all acknowledge that.
But here’s the question:
When was the last time
that you acted hospitably?
Or when was the last time
I acted hospitably?
You see, it’s not enough just to love
the quality of hospitality.
If we are going
to have deeds of godly devotion,
we’re going to have to practice it.
Here’s another one.
What about helping the elderly
that are in our midst?
You know,
our elderly brothers need help.
They need help
to get to the meetings.
to get out in the field ministry.
Some of them
are confined to their homes.
Well, if that’s the case,
they may need help from younger ones
to assist them
with shopping or doing errands
or just doing
some chore around the house.
Well, that’s something
that has been mentioned
in many Watchtower articles.
It’s been mentioned at
many conventions and assemblies.
many congregation meetings.
But now here’s a question:
When was the last time
that you did something
for an elderly brother or sister?
Or when was the last time I did?
You see, we need to think
about not just loving these ideas
but what are we doing to really help?
See, that’s showing
deeds of godly devotion.
Well, of course, we also have to think
about the more major things.
What about attending
our congregation meetings?
Hebrews 10:23-25
—that scripture
that we quote so many times—
says that we should ‘not forsake
our meeting together.’
But it goes on to say
that we should ‘encourage one another.’
So it’s not enough
just to be at the meeting.
When we’re there, we want to reach out
and do everything that we can
to encourage our brothers
and really participate in the meeting.
You see, godly devotion
is not passive; it’s active.
And so, what sort of persons ought we to be
when we’re at the meeting?
Well, we know we want to be active,
fully involved with the program.
But now, of course,
what’s the most important way
that we exercise
these deeds of godly devotion?
Well, you’ll remember
that the apostle Paul
at 1 Timothy 3:16
referred to ‘the sacred secret
of godly devotion,’
and he showed there
that Jesus really was that secret.
You see, he was
the one who demonstrated
godly devotion
in a perfect sense.
Now, Paul in that verse,
1 Timothy 3:16,
went on to say that Jesus
was ‘preached among the nations.’
Well, then, that really is
a vital part
of our deeds of godly devotion
—preaching about Christ Jesus,
his Kingdom,
and everything
that will be accomplished.
But brothers,
how much incentive we have today
to be involved fully
in our preaching work.
We have tools today
like we have never had before.
You know, over the summer
as I was attending
a number of different regional conventions
in different parts of the world,
I enjoyed so much,
no doubt just as you have,
using the JW Library app
and downloading the
Why Study the Bible? video
in a number of different languages.
We had one real interesting experience
when we were in Europe.
We got into a taxi
with a driver from Africa.
And right away,
we asked him what his language was.
Well, he told us it was
a language not familiar to us at all.
But while he was driving,
we managed to download
the Why Study the Bible? video,
and it automatically
began to play as we were in the car.
Well, as soon as the man heard it,
he started shouting:
“What’s happening?
What’s happening?”
I think he thought
he was hearing a voice from heaven
when he heard
his own language in the taxi.
But we reassured him that
that was not the case.
But he was so moved.
He almost didn’t want to take the fare,
if you can imagine,
and initially
he had been quite unfriendly.
But when he saw
what was available on our website,
he was deeply moved.
Well, maybe
you’ve had a similar experience.
Just as a note of future reference:
It’s probably not a good idea
to play the video
when someone is driving.
Well, if we have
real godly devotion that’s active,
we’re going to be busy
in doing deeds of godly devotion.
You know,
there’s an old saying that says:
“Time flies when you’re having fun.”
Well, you know, even scientists
acknowledge that there’s truth in that.
A study that was published
in the year 2012
in the journal
Psychological Science said this:
Although we tend to believe
that time flies
when we’re having a good time,
these studies
indicate that what it is
about the enjoyable time
that causes it to go by more quickly.
It seems to be the goal pursuit
or achievement-directed action
we’re engaged in that matters.
Just being content or satisfied
may not make time fly,
but being excited or actively pursuing
a desired object can.
Isn’t that interesting?
Well, now, if we’re
the sort of persons that are busy
with holy acts of conduct
and deeds of godly devotion,
reaching out for that most important goal
of everlasting life,
we will speed up the coming
of the day of Jehovah
in our hearts and our minds.